# Reconnaissance Expressions Faciales Elhlou Khalil & Madane Abdellah (ESI)

Facial expression recognition based on deep learning (REF) has received a lot of attention in recent years. The development of a model capable of identifying emotions from human facial expressions with great accuracy has become a major focus of interest. In a recent study of the Facial Recognition Technology (FERET) dataset, Sajid and al. discovered the impact of facial asymmetry as a marker of age estimation. Their findings indicate that the asymmetry of the right face is better than that of the left face. The appearance of the facial pose remains an important problem for facial detection. There are many problems such as excessive make-up, pose and expression that are resolved using convolutional networks. 

Current approaches focus mainly on recognizing facial expressions by removing the background and have therefore removed many useful and necessary features for the CNN training process. Thus, they miss the extraction of many representative features. To solve these problems, this project proposes a model based on an efficient DNN architecture that focuses on facial muscle movement regions and prevents deep networks from over-adjusting uncertain facial images. The implemented model was trained on the FER-2013 dataset, which was extended by other automatically generated images, and was finally able to reach a global accuracy level of 83%.

Dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/c/challenges-in-representation-learning-facial-expression-recognition-challenge/data
